src/content/blog/2024/Moving-to-Astro.mdx, before:

---
heroImage: /src/assets/images/placeholder-social.jpg
category: Web Stuff
description: Moving LittleSquatch.blog over to Astro web framework
pubDate: 2024-04-03T05:00:00.000Z
draft: false
tags:
  - Web Framework
  - Tech
  - Astro
title: Moving to Astro
---

import Sasquatch from "/src/components/icons/Sasquatch.astro";

This blog has been my place to show off my creative side, and since I build and develop websites for a living, I am also looking to try the latest and greatest thing. I have decided to rebuild my blog using the Astro web framework.

## What is Astro?

Astro is an open-source web framework designed for increased performance as an all-in-one solution. It is designed for content-rich sites like this blog. It has HTML first and zero JavaScript with web components for less client-side rendering to allow a faster and more performant website.

The main selling point for Astro is how highly customizable it is, with many integrations such as Tailwind and MDX, which is what this site uses. Astro uses a frontend architecture called Islands. This results in better performance by helping to avoid monolithic JavaScript patterns and stripping all non-essential JavaScript from the page automatically.

Astro's design principles are:

1. Content driven
2. Server first
3. Fast and performant
4. Easy to learn and use
5. Developer focused

## Why Change?

Originally, I had used WordPress and still do so today for some projects. However, for a simple site like this one, WordPress has become too bloated and convuluted. I have also used other platforms, such as Ghost, but I wanted a server-side rendering (SSR) framework that was easy to use.

I first started developing some websites with React and Gastby back in 2018. Gatsby was another framework of which I had been a huge fan, but sadly, development seems to have stalled in the last couple years. Also, the build times seem to be getting longer, and I am always trying to fix some issues with them in my projects. So I started looking into a new web framework in 2023.

I had been watching the development of Astro for a few years now and had tinkered with it off and on. It’s a framework that is easy to learn, organized, customizable, and, most importantly, super fast for an SSR. Astro fits all my needs and continues to add new features all the time.

## Rebuild and New Face

So with my choice to move from WordPress to Gatsby and now to Astro, I will soon be bringing my prior content over here. For now, I have finished building a new site for the blog and will eventually move the content over, with an emphasis on showing off my photos in gallery format.

I am also in the process of rebuilding and migrating my company’s website, cobaltweb.tech, over to Astro in the coming weeks.

_Inserting shameless plug now._ If you need a new website, head over to Cobalt and let us help build you a brand new, high performance website. [Visit Cobalt Web Tech](https://www.cobaltweb.tech/?utm_source=little-squatch-blog&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog-referral&utm_content=link)

<Sasquatch />

Commit message:

Refactor and UI Upgrade
- Refactor to use newer Loader for content collection in Astro
- Astro updated to 5.16.6
- Images moved to Cloudinary and using <CldImage> component for responsive images
- Migrate from ESLint/Prettier to BiomeJS for linter
- Update lib functions and schemas
- Added Starwind UI for UI components

src/content/blog/2024/Moving-to-Astro.mdx, after:

---
heroImage: littlesquatchblog/blog/2024/placeholder-hero.jpg
category: Web Stuff
description: Moving LittleSquatch.blog over to Astro web framework
pubDate: 2024-04-03T05:00:00.000Z
draft: false
tags:
  - Web Framework
  - Tech
  - Astro
title: Moving to Astro
---

import { Icon } from "astro-icon/components";

This blog has been my place to show off my creative side, and since I build and develop websites for a living, I am also looking to try the latest and greatest thing. I have decided to rebuild my blog using the Astro web framework.

## What is Astro?

Astro is an open-source web meta-framework designed for increased performance as an all-in-one solution. It is designed for content-rich sites like this blog. It has HTML first and zero JavaScript with web components for less client-side rendering to allow a faster and more performant website.

The main selling point for Astro is how highly customizable it is, with many integrations such as Tailwind and MDX, which is what this site uses. Astro uses a frontend architecture called Islands. This results in better performance by helping to avoid monolithic JavaScript patterns and stripping all non-essential JavaScript from the page automatically. And, Astro also supports JavaScript frameworks such as React, Vue, or Svelte, Astro allows you to bring in components from those frameworks as needed. It gives you the best of both worlds with Server Islands that let you render dynamic content and the rest can be statically rendered.

Astro's design principles are:

1. Content driven
2. Server first
3. Fast and performant
4. Easy to learn and use
5. Developer focused

## Why Change?

Originally, I had used WordPress and still do so today for some projects. However, for a simple site like this one, WordPress has become too bloated and convuluted. I have also used other platforms, such as Ghost, but I wanted a static site generator (SSG) framework that was easy to use.

I first considered developing with React and Gatsby back in 2018. Gatsby was another framework of which I had been a huge fan, but sadly, development seems to have stalled in the last few years. Also, the build times seem to be getting longer and developing with Gatsby just turned into a monster. So I started looking into a new web framework in 2023.

I had been watching the development of Astro for a few years now and had tinkered with it off and on. It’s a meta-framework that is easy to learn, organized, customizable, and, most importantly, super fast for SSG and SSR. Astro fits all my needs and continues to add new features all the time.

## Rebuild and New Face

So with my choice to move from WordPress to Gatsby and now to Astro, I will soon be bringing my prior content over here. For now, I have finished building a new site for the blog and will eventually move the content over, with an emphasis on showing off my photos in gallery format.

I am also in the process of rebuilding and migrating my company’s website, cobaltweb.tech, over to Astro in the coming weeks.

_Inserting shameless plug now._ If you need a new website, head over to Cobalt and let us help build you a brand new, high performance website. [Visit Cobalt Web Tech](https://www.cobaltweb.tech/?utm_source=little-squatch-blog&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog-referral&utm_content=link)

<Icon name="sasquatch" class="size-16" />
